## DI Providers
#### Class based providers
__Creating and consuming Services__
- ng g s <service-name>
- Injecting a service
- Consuming a service
__Component Interaction Using Services__
- Sharing data between multiple components
- Sharing data within App
#### Value Providers
Sure! In Angular, we can provide a value as a provider for a dependency injection token, using the `useValue` property in the provider configuration. This is useful when we want to provide a constant value, rather than a class instance or a factory function.

Here's an example of how we can use a value provider in Angular:

```typescript
import { Component } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  providers: [
    { provide: 'API_URL', useValue: 'https://api.example.com' }
  ]
})
export class AppComponent {
  constructor(@Inject('API_URL') private apiUrl: string) {}
  
  ngOnInit() {
    console.log(this.apiUrl); // Output: https://api.example.com
  }
}
```

In this example, we're providing a value for the `API_URL` token using the `useValue` property in the provider configuration. The value we're providing is a string, `'https://api.example.com'`.

Then, in the `AppComponent` constructor, we're injecting the value of the `API_URL` token using the `@Inject` decorator. This allows us to access the value of the `API_URL` token in the `AppComponent` class.

By using a value provider, we're able to provide a constant value as a dependency injection token, which can be useful in cases where we want to provide a configuration value or a constant value that is used throughout the application.

#### Factory
A factory is a function that creates and returns an instance of a service or a dependency. Factories are useful when we need more control over the creation of an instance, or when we need to perform some additional setup or configuration before returning the instance.

Here's an example of a factory function that creates an instance of a `LoggerService`:
```typescript
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';

@Injectable()
export class LoggerService {
  log(message: string) {
    console.log(message);
  }
}

export function loggerFactory() {
  return new LoggerService();
}
```

Another example, we have a service called `LoggerService` that provides a `log()` method for logging messages to the console.
We also have a factory function called `loggerFactory()` that creates and returns an instance of the `LoggerService`. The factory function is defined outside of the `LoggerService` class, and it doesn't have the `@Injectable()` decorator.
To use the factory function to provide the `LoggerService`, we can define a provider in the `@NgModule()` decorator, like this:

```typescript
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { loggerFactory, LoggerService } from './logger.service';

@NgModule({
  providers: [
    { provide: LoggerService, useFactory: loggerFactory }
  ]
})
export class AppModule { }
```
In this example, we're providing the `LoggerService` using the `loggerFactory` function. We're using the `useFactory` property to specify the factory function that should be used to create the instance of the `LoggerService`.
When the `LoggerService` is injected into a component, Angular will call the `loggerFactory` function to create a new instance of the service. This allows us to perform additional setup or configuration before returning the instance, if needed.
By using a factory function, we're able to have more control over the creation of an instance of a service or a dependency, and we're able to perform additional setup or configuration before returning the instance.

#### Using factory to create a dependency
Suppose we want to create a custom logger service that logs messages to a file instead of the console. We can create a FileLoggerService class that implements the same interface as the LoggerService class, but instead of logging to the console, it logs to a file.
__environment.ts file__
```typescript
export const environment = {
  production: false,
  useFileLogger: true
};
```
```typescript
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';

export interface ILogger {
  log(message: string): void;
}

@Injectable()
export class LoggerService implements ILogger {
  log(message: string) {
    console.log(message);
  }
}

@Injectable()
export class FileLoggerService implements ILogger {
  log(message: string) {
    // Log the message to a file
  }
}

export function loggerFactory() {
  if (useFileLogger) {
    return new FileLoggerService();
  } else {
    return new LoggerService();
  }
}
```
When the ILogger interface is injected into a component, Angular will call the loggerFactory function to create a new instance of the interface. The factory function will check the useFileLogger configuration variable to determine which implementation of the ILogger interface to return.

By using a factory function, we're able to provide different implementations of a dependency based on a configuration variable or other runtime condition. This allows us to have more control over the creation of a dependency and to provide different implementations based on the needs of our application.

#### When should i use factory and value provider?
- Use a value provider when you want to provide a simple value or configuration object to your application. Value providers are useful when you want to provide a constant value, such as a URL or API key, that is used throughout your application.
- Use a factory provider when you want to create an instance of a dependency that requires additional setup or configuration. Factory providers are useful when you need more control over the creation of an instance, or when you need to perform some additional setup or configuration before returning the instance.

In general, you should use a value provider when you want to provide a simple value or configuration object, and you should use a factory provider when you need more control over the creation of an instance or need to perform additional setup or configuration.
It's also worth noting that you can use a factory provider to create a dependency that returns a value, rather than an instance of a class. For example, you could use a factory provider to create a function that returns a random number or a string, based on some configuration or runtime condition.
